content: Carousel best practices (#4526)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/carousel-best-practices/index.md

---
layout: post
title: Best practices for carousels
subhead: Optimize carousels for performance and usability.
authors:
  - katiehempenius
description:  Learn how to optimize carousels for performance and usability.
date: 2021-01-26

> hero: hero.jpeg

Reviewer: Please try lightly optimizing the hero image to keep the repo size down :) https://web.dev/handbook/markup-media/#optimization

tags:
  - blog
  - fast
  - performance
  - web-vitals

>   - internationalization

Reviewer: What part of the post refers to this tag?

*   **CLS (Cumulative Layout Shift)**

    A surprising number of carousels use janky, non-composited animations that can contribute to CLS. On pages with autoplaying carousels, this has the potential to cause infinite CLS. This type of CLS typically isn't apparent to the human eye, which makes the issue easy to overlook. To avoid this issue, [avoid using non-composited animations](/non-composited-animations/) in your carousel (for example, during slide transitions).

### Best practices

Optimizing the performance of a carousel includes optimizing both its technical architecture and its content.

#### Load carousel content using HTML

Carousel content should be loaded via the page's HTML markup so that it is discoverable by the browser early in the page load process. Using JavaScript to initiate the loading of carousel content is probably the single biggest performance mistake to avoid when using carousels. This delays image loading and can negatively impact LCP.

> For advanced carousel optimization, consider loading the first slide statically, then progressively enhancing it to include navigation controls and additional content. This technique is most applicable to environments where you have a user's prolonged attention - this gives the additional content time to load. In environments like home pages, where users may only stick around for a second or two, only loading a single image may be similarly effective.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For advanced carousel optimization, consider loading the first slide statically, then progressively enhancing it to include navigation controls and additional content. This technique is most applicable to environments where you have a user's prolonged attention—this gives the additional content time to load. In environments like home pages, where users may only stick around for a second or two, only loading a single image may be similarly effective.
```

Reviewer: This pops up in a few more places. I can't use search&replace in GH UI so please replace all instances with em dash without surrounding spaces.

---
layout: post
title: Best practices for carousels
subhead: Optimize carousels for performance and usability.
authors:
  - katiehempenius
description:  Learn how to optimize carousels for performance and usability.
date: 2021-01-26
hero: hero.jpeg
tags:
  - blog
  - fast
  - performance
  - web-vitals
  - internationalization
---

A carousel is a UX component that displays content in slideshow-like manner. Carousels can "autoplay" or be navigated manually by users. Although carousels can be used elsewhere, they are most frequently used to display images, products, and promotions on homepages.

> 

Reviewer: I think it would be good to include a visual example here. The explanation is good but a picture is quicker to process. Every dev has seen a carousel but not everyone calls them that ("slider" is also common and we have a huge non-native English speaker audience).

## Performance

This section discusses the performance impact of carousels and best practices for building performant carousels.

### Impact

> A well-implemented carousel, in and of itself, should have very minimal or no impact on performance. That being said, carousels often contain large media assets. Large assets can impact performance regardless of whether they are displayed in a carousel or elsewhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A well-implemented carousel, in and of itself, should have very minimal or no impact on performance. However, carousels often contain large media assets. Large assets can impact performance regardless of whether they are displayed in a carousel or elsewhere.
```

> *   **LCP**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   **LCP (Largest Contentful Paint)**
```

    Large, above-the-fold carousels often contain the page's LCP element, and therefore can have a significant impact on LCP. In these scenarios, optimizing the carousel may significantly improve LCP.

>     For an in-depth explanation of how LCP measurement works on pages containing carousels, refer to the Appendix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For an in-depth explanation of how LCP measurement works on pages containing carousels, refer to the [LCP measurement for carousels](#lcp-measurement-for-carousels) section.
```

> *   **FID**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   **FID (First Input Delay)**
```

    Carousels have minimal JavaScript requirements and therefore should not impact page interactivity. If you discover that your site's carousel has long-running scripts, you should consider replacing your carousel tooling.

> *   **CLS**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   **CLS (Cumulative Layout Shift)**
```

>     A surprising number of carousels use janky, non-composited animations that can contribute to CLS. On pages with autoplaying carousels, this has the potential to cause infinite CLS. This  type of CLS typically isn't apparent to the human eye, which makes this issue easy to overlook. To avoid this issue, [avoid using non-composited animations](https://web.dev/non-composited-animations/) in your carousel (for example, during slide transitions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    A surprising number of carousels use janky, non-composited animations that can contribute to CLS. On pages with autoplaying carousels, this has the potential to cause infinite CLS. This type of CLS typically isn't apparent to the human eye, which makes the issue easy to overlook. To avoid this issue, [avoid using non-composited animations](/non-composited-animations/) in your carousel (for example, during slide transitions).
```

### Best practices

> Optimizing the performance of a carousel entails optimizing both its technical architecture and its content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optimizing the performance of a carousel includes optimizing both its technical architecture and its content.
```

#### Load carousel content using HTML

Carousel content should be loaded via the page's HTML markup so that it is discoverable by the browser early in the page load process. Using JavaScript to initiate the loading of carousel content is probably the single biggest performance mistake to avoid when using carousels. This delays image loading and can negatively impact LCP.

> An advanced carousel optimization that deviates slightly from this approach consists of loading the first slide statically, then progressively enhancing it to include navigation controls and additional content. This technique is most applicable to environments where you have a user's prolonged attention - this gives the additional content time to load. In environments like home pages, where users may only stick around for a second or two, only loading a single image may be similarly effective.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For carousel optimization, consider loading the first slide statically, then progressively enhancing it to include navigation controls and additional content. This technique is most applicable to environments where you have a user's prolonged attention - this gives the additional content time to load. In environments like home pages, where users may only stick around for a second or two, only loading a single image may be similarly effective.
```

#### Use modern technology

> Many sites use third-party JavaScript libraries to implement carousels. If you currently use older carousel tooling, you may be able to improve performance by switching to newer tooling. Newer tools tend to use more efficient APIs and are less likely to require additional dependencies like jQuery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many sites use [third-party JavaScript](/third-party-javascript) libraries to implement carousels. If you currently use older carousel tooling, you may be able to improve performance by switching to newer tooling. Newer tools tend to use more efficient APIs and are less likely to require additional dependencies like jQuery.
```

> However, you may not need JavaScript at all. The new [scroll-snap](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Scroll_Snap) API makes it possible to build full-featured, native-like carousels using only HTML and CSS - no JavaScript required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, you may not need JavaScript at all. The new [Scroll Snap](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Scroll_Snap) API makes it possible to build full-featured, native-like carousels using only HTML and CSS - no JavaScript required.
```

Here are some resources on using scroll-snap that you may find helpful:

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> *   [Building a Stories component (web.dev)](https://web.dev/building-a-stories-component/)
> *   [Next-generation web styling: scroll snap (web.dev)](https://web.dev/next-gen-css-2019/#scroll-snap)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   [Building a Stories component (web.dev)](/building-a-stories-component/)
*   [Next-generation web styling: scroll snap (web.dev)](/next-gen-css-2019/#scroll-snap)
```

*   [CSS-Only Carousel (CSS Tricks)](https://css-tricks.com/css-only-carousel/)
*   [How to Make a CSS-Only Carousel (CSS Tricks)](https://css-tricks.com/how-to-make-a-css-only-carousel/)

#### Optimize carousel content

> Carousels often contain some of a site's largest images.  Thus, it can be worth your time to make sure that these images are fully optimized. Choosing the right image format and compression level, [using an image CDN](https://web.dev/image-cdns), and [using srcset to serve multiple image versions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Scroll_Snap) are all techniques that can reduce the transfer size of images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Carousels often contain some of a site's largest images, so it can be worth your time to make sure that these images are fully optimized. Choosing the right image format and compression level, [using an image CDN](/image-cdns), and [using srcset to serve multiple image versions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Scroll_Snap) are all techniques that can reduce the transfer size of images.
```

> ## Performance Measurement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Performance measurement
```

This section discusses LCP measurement as it relates to carousels. Although carousels are treated no differently than any other UX element during LCP calculation, the mechanics of calculating LCP for autoplaying carousels is a common point of confusion.

### LCP measurement for carousels

These are the key points to understanding how LCP calculation works for carousels:

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

*   LCP considers page elements as they are painted to the frame. New candidates for the LCP element are no longer considered once the user interacts (taps, scrolls, or keypresses) with the page. Thus, any slide in an autoplaying carousel has the potential to be the final LCP element - whereas in a static carousel only the first slide would be a potential LCP candidate.
*   If two equally sized images are rendered, the first image will be considered the LCP element. The LCP element is only updated when the LCP candidate is larger than the current LCP element. Thus, if all carousel elements are equally sized, the LCP element should be the first image that is displayed.

> *   When evaluating LCP candidates, LCP considers the "[the visible size or the intrinsic size, whichever is smaller](https://web.dev/lcp)." Thus, if an autoplaying carousel displays images at a consistent size, but contains images of varying [intrinsic sizes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Intrinsic_Size) that are smaller than the display size, the LCP element may change as new slides are displayed. In this case, if all images are displayed at the same size, the image with the largest intrinsic size will be considered the LCP element. To keep LCP low, you should ensure that all items in an autoplaying carousel are the same intrinsic size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   When evaluating LCP candidates, LCP considers the "[visible size or the intrinsic size, whichever is smaller](/lcp)." Thus, if an autoplaying carousel displays images at a consistent size, but contains images of varying [intrinsic sizes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Intrinsic_Size) that are smaller than the display size, the LCP element may change as new slides are displayed. In this case, if all images are displayed at the same size, the image with the largest intrinsic size will be considered the LCP element. To keep LCP low, you should ensure that all items in an autoplaying carousel are the same intrinsic size.
```

### Navigation best practices

#### Provide prominent navigation controls

Carousel navigation controls should be easy to click and highly visible. This is something that is rarely done well - most carousels have navigation controls that are both small and subtle. Keep in mind that a single color or style of navigation control will rarely work in all situations. For example, an arrow that is clearly visible against a dark background might be difficult to see against a light background.

#### Indicate navigation progress

Carousel navigation controls should provide context about the total number of slides and the user's progress through them. This information makes it easier for the user to navigate to a particular slide and understand which content has already been viewed. In some situations providing a preview of upcoming content - whether it be an excerpt of the next slide or a list of thumbnails - can also be helpful and increase engagement.

#### Support mobile gestures

> On mobile, swipe gestures should be supported in addition to traditional navigation controls (i.e. on screen buttons).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On mobile, swipe gestures should be supported in addition to traditional navigation controls (such as on screen buttons).
```

#### Provide alternate navigation paths

Because it's unlikely that most users will engage with all carousel content, the content that carousel slides link to should be accessible from other navigation paths.

### Readability best practices

#### Don't use autoplay

The use of autoplay creates two almost paradoxical problems: on-screen animations tend to distract users and move the eyes away from more important content; simultaneously, because users often associate animations with ads, they will ignore carousels that autoplay.

> Thus, it's a rare scenario that autoplay is an appropriate good choice. If content is important, not using autoplay will maximize its exposure; if carousel content is not important, then the use of autoplay will detract from more important content. In addition, autoplaying carousels can be difficult to read (and annoying, too). People read at different speeds, so it's rare that a carousel consistently transitions at the "right" time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, it's a rare that autoplay is a good choice. If content is important, not using autoplay will maximize its exposure; if carousel content is not important, then the use of autoplay will detract from more important content. In addition, autoplaying carousels can be difficult to read (and annoying, too). People read at different speeds, so it's rare that a carousel consistently transitions at the "right" time for different users.
```

> Ideally, slide navigation should be user-directed via navigation controls. If you must use autoplay, autoplay should disable on user hover. In addition, the slide transition rate should take slide content into account -  the more text that a slide contains, the longer it should be displayed on screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ideally, slide navigation should be user-directed via navigation controls. If you must use autoplay, autoplay should be disabled on user hover. In addition, the slide transition rate should take slide content into account -  the more text that a slide contains, the longer it should be displayed on screen.
```

#### Keep text and images separate

Carousel text content is often "baked into" the corresponding image file, rather than displayed separately using HTML markup. This approach is bad for accessibility, localization, and compression rates. It also encourages a one-size-fits-all approach to asset creation. However, the same image and text formatting is rarely equally readable across desktop and mobile formats.

#### Be concise

You only have a fraction of a second to catch a user's attention. Short, to-the-point copy will increase the odds that your message gets across.

### Product best practices

Carousels work well in situations where using additional vertical space to display additional content is not an option. Carousels on product pages are often a good example of this use case.

However, carousels are not always used effectively.

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
